ABBY:
Previously on Dance Moms...
You're going to be using guns
in your routine.
I want you to kill it.
We're going to play a little bench
in front of the dance studio.
Beautiful.
You know everyone's
going to hate you?
You're a conniving bitch.
Eight means eight.
Not nine and a half, not ten.
Eight.
You should be so lucky
to have Chloe as your student,
because she's a great dancer.
Everybody knows
it except for you.
ABBY: If that kid loved to dance,
she'd have remembered that trio.
You always got to keep
your options open.
ABBY: Coming up on Dance Moms...
Kendall, you are back on probation.
There's a lot of studios out there
who would love what she does.
We're going
to one of those studio.
Do Abby and the moms
know you came here?
They have no idea.
ABBY: Nia,
you've worked hard in ballet class,
you've waited a long time
for this pretty dance.
Don't screw it up, kid.
She's doing my routine
with my costume.
I wouldn't want
to steal your choreography. Really?
ABBY: Don't carry it
into the dressing room.
You go home,
you cry into your pillow,
and you don't make
the same mistakes again.
(theme music playing)
SINGER: ♪Get up♪
♪Get on the floor♪
♪My world is with my girls♪
♪Living on the dance floor♪
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: Let's go girls.
Get in here, shake the lead out.
Okay.
Now Hollywood Vibe last week.
(upbeat music playing)
You did an okay job.
I thought it could have been better.
Moving on.
This week,
we are going to Fire and Ice
right here in Pittsburgh.
(clapping)
And I have
a reputation to uphold.
It's much more difficult to walk in
and compete against people you know
than a bunch of strangers.
Okay.
Let's get to the pyramid.
I hate to do this, but...
Kendall,
you are back on probation.
JILL: That's ridiculous, Abby.
What more do you want from her?
ABBY: Your head is distended,
your shoulders are hunched,
your rib cage is open.
Are you kidding me?
You're kidding me, right?
ABBY: No.
She doesn't make the corrections.
I have been telling her
since the audition about her posture,
and it has not improved once.
CHRISTI: Jill, careful what you wish for.
You're always demanding
more special parts and attention
for Kendall
while you're back on probation.
So you got it.
JILL: I can't even believe it.
You know what?
You should be on probation
not my daughter.
ABBY: Kendall was on the bottom
of the pyramid.
Unfortunately,
I don't have a picture of Jill.
If I would,
she would be the one that's there.
Learn something, Jill.
You are on my last nerve.
I don't even know why I'm here.
You had nothing nice to say to her
since the second we got here!
You know what, Abby?
She does a lot right.
ABBY: She turns like a top.
But that's what's good.
I don't need to fix that.
I was not surprised
in the least by Jill's reaction.
I was devastated
by Kendall's reaction.
I certainly don't wake up
in the morning
to intentionally hurt a child's feelings.
There's a lot of studios out there
who would love
what she does right.
And you know what, Abby?
ABBY: I hear that.
We're going
to one of those studios.
I'm not putting up
with this crap anymore.
We're done.
That's it.
You know what, honey?
She doesn't appreciate you.
I'll take you
where someone appreciates you.
It makes me sick to think
that Abby would do this
to a little girl
who is working so hard.
We'll go where they will treat you
with respect,
they'll give you great numbers,
they might even let you do a solo or two.
This is disgusting to me,
and I'm not putting up
with it anymore.
It's over.
KENDALL:
I don't want to go, I love to dance.
ABBY: Next, Paige.
You were on the top,
now you're obviously not.
You couldn't remember the trio.
SINGER: ♪Over and over♪
♪Know this is true♪
ABBY: Unacceptable.
Next.
Brooke.
Brooke, this whiny, mopey,
teenager crap has to stop.
You are the role model.
Do me a favor,
just smile.
Mackenzie,
the tricks are stronger, they're better.
But you need a few ballet classes.
Next we have Chloe.
Once again,
nice, clean performance.
Maddie, you redeemed yourself.
No stupid mistakes.
Maddie and Chloe,
you know, neck and neck,
same old story different day.
ABBY:
And deservedly so for the first...
(squealing)
ABBY:
Nia is on top of the pyramid.
HOLLY: It's been a long time coming.
I didn't think
I would ever live to see this day.
ABBY:
You were on top of this pyramid
because of your hard work
and your determination all week long.
To me, that's sometimes
more important than any trophy.
And you shined.
Your mother isn't always here,
but she does make sure that you're here.
And you can see the improvement.
NIA: I'm very happy I'm on the top
of the pyramid this week.
Yay.
ABBY: This week,
you're going to be doing a solo.
Holly, she's going to perform,
act, and look like a princess.
Like I tell everybody else,
it's tough getting here,
it's even more difficult to stay here.
Moving on to the group number.
We are going to do a dance.
It's called Head Over Heels.
It's about falling in love
and getting married.
As an artist,
I draw my inspiration
from the world around me.
And I think that Melissa
has a little secret.
So hopefully
once she sees this number,
she's going to realize
that everybody knows her secret.
Yes?
Aren't I too young to get married?
(laughter)
MELISSA: I just got engaged, but I like
to keep my private life private.
ABBY: You're going to be dressed
as brides,
so I want your dads
to be at the competition
as if they were giving
their daughters away.
All right, you're dismissed.
Thank you very much.
Girls, when outside
triple ballet pirouette.
That's what I want to see,
it's in the number.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: Five, six, seven...
MELISSA: I freaking can't believe
what just happened with Jill.
I think Jill's going back
to her old studio.
-No!
-Yeah.
Oh, I do too.
And I also think
that she's going to go back there,
and she's going to kind of dish the dirt.
And I think
that we're going to run into them.
I wouldn't be surprised
if we run into them soon.
MELISSA: I feel horrible for Jill.
It's hard being a dance mom
and making these tough decisions.
I hope she comes back.
I'm not all that shocked.
Jill didn't really bond with us.
Kendall I thought
fit the group very well.
And I thought Kendall
is a good little dancer.
-She held her own.
-Yeah, I think she holds her own.
I think Jill's going to regret
walking out of there.
It was like a spur of the moment,
like, I'm pissed off, I'm leaving.
Well, she can't come back now after that.
Well, I'm kind of disappointed
she didn't get a chance
to see Nia at the top of the pyramid
after she talked about...
I know.
I'm really kind of disappointed
about that.
She kept saying that she'd never
pretty much amount to that.
ABBY: Open.
Big rich, big rich, and in.
Stop jump.
Slide.
This week I'm doing a solo
called I'll Do Anything For You.
It's an acro routine,
and that's one of my strongest
styles of dance.
And I'm just really excited.
SINGER: ♪If I were Magellan♪
♪I would sail straight up to heaven
and find you♪
♪It's true♪
MELISSA: I'm so excited about Nia.
Did you see the girls?
Oh.
As soon as she wasn't on the last row.
CHRISTI: I know. Not even that she was
at the top of the pyramid.
You know what I was excited for?
The kids were doing an ethnic dance?
That's right. Exactly.
Nia, listen.
You've worked hard,
you've worked hard in ballet class,
you've waited a long time
for this pretty dance with me,
and I'll tell you what,
don't screw it up, kid.
CHRISTI: Melissa, you have to be upset.
I mean you were friends--
you are friends with Jill.
And you guys were like buddies.
I am upset.
I mean, you know,
I just think it's the wrong decision.
HOLLY: I don't how you make
that snap decision like that.
I think she'll be back.
Jill didn't mean it,
she doesn't want to leave, she'll be back.
I'm going to try to call Jill and see...
Poor Kendall was upset.
HOLLY: She was upset.
She was crying.
I hate to see a kid cry.
Oh, my God, she sent me a text.
What she say?
Kendall and I deserve better,
I'm not coming back.
Sorry to leave you to the wolves.
I just don't want this for K.
I'm going back to my old studio
where they like Kendall.
No, she didn't say that.
I told you she was going back there.
HOLLY: It didn't take her long
to make that decision.
-No.
-That was fast.
Hello, let's call a spade a spade,
she's a studio hopper,
so it's time to hop back to the old one.
You know what? Frankly,
I don't want somebody like that
around us and our kids.
So I say good riddance.
(dramatic music playing)
Listen, Kendall.
I'm not putting up with this crap anymore.
I can't have you at a place
that doesn't appreciate you
and all they do is tear you down.
That probation is ridiculous.
You did nothing wrong.
It was my fault, she should put me
on probation not you.
Were done at Abby's.
I'm taking you somewhere
where they are going to appreciate you.
DANCE TEACHER: Hello?
-This is Jill Vertes from Abby's?
-DANCE TEACHER: Uh-huh?
I'm fed up with Abby,
I can't go back there.
And I really need a dance studio
where they're going to train my child.
I was wondering
if you could take a look at Kendall
and tell me
what you think of her talents.
And if you could find
a place for her on your team.
DANCE TEACHER:
If you want to come to Candy Apple's
then I am here for you.
But I need to be 100% sure
that all of your ties are severed
from Abby Lee Dance Company.
(upbeat music playing)
WOMAN: Five, six, flat back.
ABBY: Let's point your foot out.
Hip down, hip down.
Five, four--come on, straighten that knee.
Three, two, one.
And finish. Other side.
-I heard about the engagement.
-(giggling)
So are you going to be in the wedding?
Do you think
I'm going to be in the wedding?
My mom is engaged,
but she wants to keep it quiet.
-Chloe, work on your solo.
-Okay.
Maddie, same thing,
work on your solo.
Think about the corrections.
You should work on your pirouettes
and your (indistinct) turns.
Okey doke, all right.
Let's everybody get
to where we need to be.
I can't believe you're not
more excited about the wedding.
(quirky music playing)
What do you think of the ring?
Beautiful.
I love the story.
-No, don't say it.
-What story?
-ABBY: What story?
-Nothing.
We weren't even
supposed to talk about it.
ABBY: Wait a minute, what story?
-Nothing.
-Come here.
Mackenzie, tell me the story.
-MACKENZIE: I don't know what story.
You're lying.
We're not supposed
to tell Abby anything.
She's a blabbermouth.
-No, seriously. I don't know the story.
-You don't know the story?
What's Chloe? She's a weirdo.
What's she making up?
MACKENZIE: I don't know
what story they're talking about.
-ABBY: Tell me the story.
-Kenz, come on.
Tell Chloe I want the story, come here.
MACKENZIE: Um, hey, Chlo,
Abby wants the story.
CHLOE: No, don't.
(upbeat music playing)
CHRISTI Ooh, I like that one.
I actually like this one.
So the moms and I
went to Babbette's bridal shop
so we could get some inspiration
for this bridal dance that we're doing.
Are we doing long dance
for the girls or short nails?
I want somebody
to try this one on.
Um, we got awfully sidetracked.
(giggles)
CHRISTI That is a poofy, poofy dress.
Is that a wedding dress?
-I'm assuming.
-I want to wear it.
(indistinct chatter)
KELLY: I remember going shopping
for my wedding dress
with my mom and my sister.
It was me, my mom, my sister,
and my grandmother,
and the first dress I came out in...
-That, was that it?
-I bought it.
Well, personally,
if I got married again,
I wouldn't be wearing
a big wedding gown.
-No? You wouldn't do that?
-Nope.
CHRISTI: Oh, no, somebody try that one on.
I like that one over there.
I used to get excited
when I looked at wedding dresses.
I really don't anymore.
CHRISTI: Why are you lying?
We all know you're engaged,
so why don't you just admit it?
You wanna go first?
-I don't have any underwear.
-(giggling)
Welcome to my world, no panties.
(laughs)
You're a bride!
A fat one!
(laughter)
(indistinct) trying
on a wedding dress.
Me neither,
we came here for headpieces.
CHRISTI: You look skinny.
You look really skinny in that.
Because it hides your butt.
Just kidding.
She wants to get married again,
and she wants a big rock.
That's right.
Maybe you should renew your vowels.
Vowels? (laughs)
I think you need to say,
will you marry me again?
But Melissa, you're the one
who has a chance
of getting married again.
-Not me.
-MELISSA: I'm not wearing a wedding dress.
I don't know, I think
if I was getting married again,
I'd have to have the birth thing.
I like the birdcage too.
Yeah, to hide your wrinkles?
Oh, no she didn't.
(laughter)
(upbeat music playing)
Here we are.
I'm a little nervous
to join the Candy Apples.
I haven't really seen their studio,
but I want to dance at a place
where they actually respect me
and they like me as a dancer.
Hi.
-Welcome.
-Thank you.
When Jill called
and wanted to bring Kendall
over to the dance studio, I was thrilled.
I mean, why wouldn't I be?
It's a win-win situation.
-You're not nervous are you?
-No.
Oh, maybe a little,
but that's okay.
That's normal.
Don't be nervous, don't be nervous.
-You'll get over that.
-You don't have to be nervous.
So come on, let's go.
They're actually having
acro class right now.
Should we take our shoes off?
In our studio?
Oh, honey, we have a cleaning lady
that cleans the floor every night.
-We don't need to worry about it.
-All right.
No screaming
and yelling about that here.
-May I come?
-The cleaning lady comes every night.
All right.
Kendall misses her friends
back at Abby's.
I had to explain to her
why this was a good decision
to bring her out here,
because Cathy is going to give her
what she needs
and what she wants to be a good dancer.
Looking to join our company?
I need a studio, I need a group of kids
she can dance with.
Oh, okay, so you're coming here
under the assumption
that you you might want
to just go ahead and join with us?
-JILL: Absolutely.
-And become an apple?
-I need a studio.
-CATHY: Fine.
Cathy takes a look at Kendall,
she sees her potential right away,
she sees
what this little girl can do,
what she can bring
to a solo or group number.
This is great.
This is exactly what I needed.
CATHY: A little something
that we're doing this weekend,
and I don't want to put
any pressure on you whatsoever.
I have an adorable little solo
that I think
would be very fitting for her.
And the funny thing
about it is, dare I say,
we're going to go to Pittsburgh.
This week's Fire and Ice competition
just got a little bit more interesting.
That'll give you an opportunity
to just join in and be with us
even though
you won't be in a group number.
Cathy gives Kendall
a solo right off the bat.
This was Cathy's way of telling me
that she appreciates me
and my daughter,
she has respect for us,
and she knows
that Kendall is a good dancer.
This is good.
(uplifting music playing)
ABBY: And one,
hit two, hit three, hit four.
Give me something.
Come on, girls.
We do a lot of contemporary lyrical
in competitions,
because that's like
the biggest fad right now.
But it's nice
to also do some novelty numbers.
And Head Over Heels is a novelty routine.
SINGER: ♪I love you,
I love you, I love you♪
Great.
-What's going on?
-That's good.
They're just practicing.
-Hello.
Hey, what you up to?
What's on Mackenzie's top?
Are those bats?
-They're puppies.
-They look like bats from here.
Don't cross your fingers.
Oh, those hands.
Who's your manicurist?
She should be out of work.
Girls, three more days.
We need to
get this choreography fixed.
Got it?
Fire And Ice, three more days.
Go back to the top, let's do it.
There's a story and a theme.
The girls are brides,
they hold nosegays,
they might even wear garters.
One, two, up, up.
Down, down, jump over,
don't catch feet.
Push.
I'm inviting the dads
to come and watch the competition.
It's as though
they're giving away their daughters,
but instead of giving them
to some guy
that's never going to be good enough,
he's going to give them
to the world of dance.
I want to marry dance, but I don't.
(giggles)
If I had to marry someone,
I would marry Justin Bieber.
ABBY: Girls, remember, your dads
are coming to the competition.
They complain
about all the money you spend,
all the hours you spend here
at the studio, all the outfits,
all the rhinestones.
Your dad's going to sit-in
that audience and watch you.
You want him to say,
oh, my God, look at my kid up there.
It's all worth it.
It's all worth it
to see her up on that stage.
Look what she's accomplished,
look how good she is.
I really hope
that Chloe's dad can make it,
but I think the bigger question
on everyone's mind is,
who is Melissa
going to bring to represent?
Is she going to bring
the dad or the sugar daddy?
-Their dad's not coming.
-Really?
He's not going to be here, so.
-Curt's not coming at all.
-Mm-mm.
This is the one time
the dads are asked
to come and participate
with their girls,
and Melissa
can't put the drama aside.
It always has to be about her.
Did you not want him to come?
No, he's not coming, because he's going
to be at a hockey tournament.
Okay.
Will Greg come?
No way.
If Curt can't come,
why wouldn't you just bring Greg?
I wouldn't want to hurt feelings.
You know?
But if he couldn't be there,
would his feelings be hurt?
If he knew
that Greg did it, yes.
I don't know
why you wouldn't bring Greg.
They live with Greg, Melissa.
I mean, I would love
for him to be there.
But absolutely not.
I don't know why Melissa
goes crazy
every time she hears Curt's name.
I mean, he is still Maddie
and Mackenzie's dad.
So they still need to have
some kind of relationship
just for the girls.
I can't wait to see
how our headpieces are all going to look.
MELISSA: Oh, I have something
that I'm going to bring to you tomorrow.
I think I have a white thing
you might want to use.
-I don't know.
-Okay.
Oh, it would have been so cool
if I had my gown, you guys.
We could have cut it up because it has
so many beautiful pieces to it.
You should have saved it!
Your kids
probably would have wanted it.
Even if they didn't wear it,
they're just for a keepsake.
Right.
Well, they can help you
pick out a new dress.
MELISSA: (snorting laugh)
There won't be any new dresses.
-JILL: Hi.
-DANCE MOM: Hi!
DANCE MOM: Hey, Jill!
Thank you so much. I'm Jill.
-Hi it's nice to meet you. I'm Nikki.
-It's so nice to meet you.
I'm a little nervous walking in here.
And I meet the moms
and they all welcome me with open arms.
They're so nice.
They're so polite.
-Kendall, have fun.
-Okay.
JILL: All right.
It's just been
a battlefield at that studio.
It's a different beast over there.
-DANCE MOM: Beast?
-Mhm.
(laughter)
Look at you!
DANCE MOM:
Some sparkling apple cider.
JILL: This is so different
from the battlefield
the first day I walked into Abby's.
-Cheers!
-Cheers to you.
JILL: These guys actually
want me to be there.
And they're really welcoming.
This is really nice
to be on the other end of receiving.
-Apple toast.
-Thank you for welcoming me.
-Cheers.
-Cheers, girls.
Thank you.
CATHY: So why don't we
start in the corner?
Let's put your hands
behind your back.
And let's just do two walks.
One, two, three, four, then...
JILL: Kendall just wants to dance.
She was not doing that enough at Abby's.
Pirouette up and over.
Pirouette.
Now, she's dancing.
Your second leg is bent.
Can you straighten
it out for me?
And straight.
Oh, yeah.
See how when you give
nice corrections, you get results.
So does Abby and the moms
know you came here?
They have no idea.
And guess what?
I don't care.
I know that when she finds out,
she's going to be
probably more angry than hurt.
And maybe she'll feel
the anger that I felt
when she belittled my child
in front of everybody...
-DANCE MOM: Karma.
-...for no reason.
CATHY: Do you happen to know
who's at the top of the pyramid?
I think it's Nia.
Oh, it's Nia that's at--really?
Well, if Nia is at the top of the pyramid,
you know what that means.
She is probably
going to be doing a solo.
That means that you and her
are going to be going head-to-head.
-Okay.
-Okay?
CATHY: Kendall is really
going to kick butt.
And Abby,
she's going to miss Kendall
being part of her competition team.
So are you going to feel badly
if you go head-to-head against Nia?
Yeah, I guess.
I'm really doing this for Kendall.
And if this is the only way I can get Abby
to see what Kendall can do,
then this is what it's got to be.
ABBY: Nia, this is it.
I don't want to see
any mistakes in this number.
Go.
Chasse.
Knee, knee.
A lot is riding on this solo for Nia.
It's an important solo for her
and she needs to get her act together.
I'm a little confused.
Is Melissa engaged?
-Well, she has her ring on.
-Exactly.
CHRISTI: But today
and yesterday she didn't.
I hope that's not a friendship ring.
-Uh, yeah.
-No.
-That's a nice friend.
-Yeah.
I want to meet
a friend like that.
You have a friend.
He needs to buy me
another one of this.
(laughter)
-Because your other hand's lonely.
-I want to be--
I want to have another friend!
(laughs)
Melissa has a big rock on her finger,
and I don't know why
she's being so secretive about it.
It's like, I mean,
every time I ask her about it,
she's just like, oh,
it's no big deal.
Hand. Hand.
Don't go so far.
It's awkward.
HOLLY: And then this weekend,
the dads are invited,
and she's wearing
another man's engagement ring.
Yeah, I wonder if Kurt knows.
-And I thought maybe that's why...
-If she didn't tell us...
-...the ring keeps coming on and off.
-...I can't imagine her telling Kurt.
These people are all going to have
to come to terms with things,
because there's two
little girls involved.
Exactly.
And they're going to have a long time
growing up if they don't get along.
-I don't know.
-She's so forthcoming.
She'll tell you
everything about her body,
nooks, crevices, desires,
taboos, all of that.
KELLY: Fair game.
(indistinct) like the time she told me
that she thinks of sex and throbs.
KELLY: Ugh, that was bad.
That was making me...
I mean, I know
that she's cleanly shaved down there,
but she won't tell me she's engaged.
-Hello!
-That's a little too personal.
-I know!
-A little too personal.
Kelly, you're crossing the line.
(quirky music playing)
ABBY: Come on, girls, let's go!
KELLY: Ugh!
Girls, be careful. It's slick out here.
ABBY:
I love the Fire and Ice competition
because it's here in Pittsburgh.
So it's always nice
when we get to stay home.
I have more time
with Broadway Baby.
And they are always thrilled
to see the Abby Lee Dance Company.
-Hey.
-Hello.
(indistinct)
I mean, come on,
it's the Abby Lee Dance Company.
Welcome.
(upbeat music playing)
KELLY: I'm not excited
about competing in Pittsburgh,
because everybody knows Abby,
everybody hates Abby.
ABBY: Girls, I need not say
how important it is here, yes?
We all know what's on the line.
It's Fire and Ice.
Every one of those people are my friends.
I've known them for years.
But even though you're friends,
they're still competitive,
like your girlfriend at school.
CATHY: We've just arrived
at the Fire and Ice competition,
and Abby
and all of those moms
aren't going to know what hit them
when they see my secret little weapon.
JILL: I'm a little nervous
walking into this competition
with Candy Apples.
I'm going to be the one
looking over my shoulder.
I'm afraid Christi and Kelly
might come after me with a shotgun.
CATHY: You know what,
I want to see with you?
I want to take a look
at your solo since it's new.
JILL: My goal here
is to have Kendall stand out.
Do I think
I'm going to get Abby's attention?
Yes.
I'm going to do a little more liner
and a little more on her cheeks.
Okay. And you know what?
We have do little wings.
-Could you please do that?
JILL: Absolutely.
CATHY: Do you have
any loose rhinestones?
We do little rhinestones on the eye
just to add a little glimmer.
JILL: I know I'm going to see Abby
and I just want to say to her,
do you see what you made me do.
Oh, you don't have
eye shadow on, Jill?
-JILL: No.
-Okay, purple. We do purple.
JILL: Purple shadow?
-For real?
-Yeah.
JILL: This Candy Apple green room
is a lot different than the one at Abby's.
-Close.
-Are you dabbling?
Well, I was contemplating purple
with her orange costume,
but I trust you.
-Close.
-Mm.
Oh, well.
We'll see what happens.
JILL: There's no screaming
or yelling or crying.
I don't have to, like,
be looking over my shoulder,
feeling the knife
in my back at any second.
I can relax
and take care of my child.
-Stand up tall.
-Kendall?
You walk in there
like you own the place.
That's right. And you need to just beam,
because you're so relieved
and you're so happy right now
because you don't have a whole lot
of crappy pressures on you.
Let's go.
Hi, Kendall.
(tense music playing)
-Stand up tall.
-Kendall?
You walk in there
like you own the place.
-That's right.
-All right, let's go.
Nia, I need you. Come on.
CATHY: Look,
she doesn't have a kid,
but she has a dog in a stroller!
Come on.
ABBY: Do my eyes deceive me?
I can not believe
that Kendall is here with Cathy.
What is her mother thinking?
-CATHY: Hi, everybody.
-ABBY: What are you doing (indistinct)
CHRISTI: Everybody laughed at me
when I said
I wanted to look
into Jill's background,
but here she is with Cathy.
Of all people,
why would you go to Cathy?
You're leaving Freddy to go to Jason.
Oh, Melissa,
so good to see you.
MADDIE: I was so surprised
to see Kendall and Jill
with Candy Apples.
I mean, I kind of wanted to cry
because it didn't seem right.
I think she fits better with us.
CATHY: All right, well, we have a solo
that we have to go perform.
HOLLY: All of a sudden,
it hits me, that's Nia's competition.
I felt like I had been punched
in the stomach.
-ABBY: Excuse me. Let's go.
-Oh, Kendall, let's go this way.
(upbeat music playing)
CHRISTI: Anybody else shocked?
I can't say I'm really all that shocked
that Jill's with Candy Apples.
I mean, it was only a matter of time
before she hop,
hop, hop over to somewhere new.
I think she's pretty desperate
to go to Candy Apples.
Well, that's what I'm thinking.
I wouldn't think
that that's where she would go.
I would think she would move further,
like towards New York.
I'm feeling pretty betrayed
to see someone who I thought
was on my team walk through
the door on the competition team.
You know what's going
to be the problem?
Guess who's she's
going to be up against?
-I know.
-(indistinct) Nia.
I bet she's going to do a solo.
I feel like Jill
has become the ultimate traitor
to put her daughter up
to dance against a teammate.
She was a teammate of ours.
Who does that?
Well, I hope Nia has a great time...
-She will.
-KELLY: Me too.
...on stage.
That's the most important thing.
-That's all that matters.
-HOLLY: That's all that matters.
At this point, that's all we have
to keep telling our kids.
It's all about having fun (indistinct)
like kill everybody!
But I don't know how much fun it is
to compete against someone
who's your former teammate.
-Yeah.
-That's hard.
Oh, yeah. Wonder if any of the dads
have gotten here?
-Maybe Greg will surprise you.
-Maybe.
It can happen.
I think this meeting is adjourned.
-Okay.
-Yeah.
(upbeat music playing)
So I just wanted to tell you
that I was really reluctant
-when you called.
-I know.
Because I don't like
to engage in Abby's sloppy seconds.
I hope you're feeling welcome.
-I am.
-Good.
Everybody's been really nice.
Thank you.
KENDALL: Hi, Nia.
Hi, Kendall.
You're dancing with Candy Apples?
Yeah.
I was really excited
to perform my solo
because I just wanted to see Abby's face.
You have a solo too?
Yes.
I like your crown.
I'm supposed to be a princess.
Well, good luck.
You too.
I'm a little nervous
to have a solo against Kendall.
But I'm going to try
very, very hard to make it my best.
PA: Please welcome to the stage
participant number 20.
This is Nia performing to
"I'll Do Anything For You."
(cheering)
(dramatic music playing)
SINGER: ♪If I were Magellan♪
♪I would sail
straight up to heaven and find you♪
♪It's true♪
♪If I were John Lennon,
I would ask the world♪
♪To imagine loving you♪
♪If I could♪
♪For you♪
HOLLY: Watching me on stage
was an incredible experience for me.
I am not a person
who cries easily.
I'm not one
who gets very emotional.
But she looked like a princess.
She looked beautiful.
She looked happy.
She owned that stage
and she was dancing with such joy
and passion and energy.
It was her moment,
and I knew
what it took for her to get to that place.
I was just so proud of her.
SINGER: ♪And when the stars
come out across red velvet skies♪
♪I'll catch them all
and bring them home♪
♪For you♪
♪I'd do anything for you♪
(cheering)
ABBY: I think Nia did everything
right on the money.
She just needs
to work on her technique,
straightening her legs,
stretching her feet.
Abby just couldn't see
her potential, her talent.
All she did was pick out her flaws.
ABBY:
Kendall has a solo coming up.
She's against Nia
in the same age category.
Cathy didn't have
to put Kendall up against Nia.
Cathy knows
that Nia deserves a chance to shine.
And that was just a really rotten,
shady thing to do.
PA: Judges, our next competitor
comes to us
from Candy Apples Dance Center.
This is Kendall performing
to "I Think I Like You."
(cheering)
(uplifting music playing)
SINGER:
♪Ever since the day I saw you♪
♪Waiting for that train♪
Oh, nice straight knees.
Woo!
SINGER:
♪My head's been reeling♪
♪At night, I lay awake in bed
and I can't explain...♪
ABBY:
Kendall's a great little performer.
And the routine
is certainly dynamic,
because she's doing
my routine with my costume.
And the kid's only been gone
from my studio for a week.
What did Cathy teach her?
Nothing.
Cathy is a worm.
SINGER: ♪Now what should I do?♪
♪Hey!♪
♪What I'm really trying to say is♪
♪I think I like you♪
-(cheering)
-CATHY: Good job, Kendall!
Good job!
Woo!
HOLLY: Kendall danced well.
I knew it
watching her from my seat.
Kendall danced well.
I hope that the judges see
what I saw in Nia.
-You did good, Nia.
-MADDIE: I know.
You did so good, Nia.
KELLY: 10 times
better than Kendall.
MADDIE: Like, I couldn't
even tell you (indistinct)
KELLY: Your face
was just like you loved to dance.
I know. You looked like you were having
just the time of your life.
(upbeat music playing)
CHRISTI: Mark, are you able to come?
MARK: I can't.
I have a meeting I got to go to.
Oh. Okay, well, Chloe understands.
CHLOE: My dad can't come
to the competition today,
but that's okay because I know
he tried his hardest to get here.
-MARK: Hi, Chloe. How are you?
-Good.
-MARK: I love you.
-I love you too.
And I'll just tell him
when I get home all about it.
Oh, my goodness!
All the single girls!
I'm really excited
because the wedding costume
is my favorite costume
of the year so far.
It's gorgeous.
And I'm excited
because I just got engaged,
so it's kind of fun for me.
(gleeful screaming)
Let's not break it!
Oh!
-All right, you two!
-I got it!
I wanted to catch the flowers,
but the other girls did before I could.
-MELISSA: Your make-up!
-MADDIE: Mackenzie, it's okay.
-MELISSA: Don't cry!
-Get away from me.
You're making me sad.
MELISSA: Okay,
let's not talk to her, please.
Please, I don't want--
we're ready to go on stage.
Just leave her alone.
It doesn't matter about the dance.
It matters about me.
I do. It does matter about you.
I'm emotional.
Emotional. You're so cute.
Stop it, Mom.
You're so cute, honey. Hey.
-Stop.
-Don't cry.
ABBY: All right, it's time.
Don't forget your dads are out there.
-Love you.
-Love you too.
Good luck.
PA: From the Abby Lee Dance Company,
please welcome to the stage
number 201, Junior Group.
This is "Head Over Heels."
(upbeat music playing)
SINGIER: ♪Treat me kind♪
♪But really,
as long as you keep me♪
♪I don't mind♪
♪As long as you don't have to leave me♪
♪I won't make a fuss♪
♪Just as long as it's us♪
♪I don't care what they say♪
♪They can say what they want♪
MACKENZIE:
I wish my dad was here,
because he could watch me dance.
SINGER:
♪Because I'm head over heels♪
♪Big time for real♪
♪Oh, baby I love you♪
♪I love you♪
(cheering)
MACKENZIE: Always a bridesmaid.
Never a bride.
(upbeat music playing)
PA: From Candy Apples Dance Center,
please welcome number 287,
This is "A Funeral."
(applause)
(dramatic music playing)
KELLY: I think that Cathy actually
may have some good dancers
at her studio.
The problem is that they're just old.
Cathy needs to put Vivi
and her two little friends
in there to bring the age down.
(applause)
ABBY: Cathy doesn't know
how to choreograph.
And who runs into a funeral
and does an arabesque?
Vivi-Anne.
(upbeat music playing)
PA: In our Junior Small Groups,
we have a first place overall award.
And that is going to...
number 288, "Head Over Heels!"
(cheering)
ABBY: The girls actually got a platinum
in their performance
and they won the overall high score
for the junior groups.
PA: For your first place overall
Junior Soloist,
number 21, "I Think I Like You."
(cheering)
HOLLY: My child was set up.
It was like I have been blindsided.
And I'm not sure what game
is being played between Jill,
Candy Apples, Cathy,
and Abby for that matter,
but my daughter's not a pawn
in this whole game.
This is real for her,
and I feel like she was a pawn
in their bigger game
that they were playing
at my daughter's expense.
Where's Nia?
Nia, what's up?
Nia, what's wrong?
NIA: I did really want to win
because my dad was there,
but it will come again.
You could not have been
more beautiful out there.
You should be proud of yourself.
You did the number.
You finished it.
Hold your chin up high.
You have nothing
to be embarrassed about.
-Not at all, sweetie.
-Not at all.
People who don't cry crying.
ABBY: Why are we crying and pouting?
And I see one kid in tears,
one kid pouting,
and one kid sitting on their dad's lap.
Don't carry it
into the dressing room.
You go home.
You cry into your pillow.
You figure out what you did wrong
and you don't make
the same mistakes again.
CATHY: Jill, we would like to present you
with a Candy Apples Dance Mom jacket.
So this is for you,
and we want you to have this.
JILL: I feel great
that there's no such thing as probation
at Candy Apples.
I don't have that
hanging over my head.
And you know what?
Kendall feels great too
because she can go out
and dance and do her thing
and not be afraid to do great.
-Wait. Are you leaving?
-I need a break.
For what just happened out there,
you know it was wrong.
She did a beautiful job.
And a child who has been off,
this kid has been working her tail off...
-Yeah.
-HOLLY: ...late at night.
-ABBY: (indistinct)
-I think it's not a reflection of her job.
-Outstanding.
-ABBY: Right.
I just do not like
the way that played itself out.
ABBY: Mhm.
It's tough enough
having to deal with Abby,
but I've learned
over the years how to handle her.
But when it comes
to my daughter's happiness,
I don't want have to go up
against Jill and Cathy too.
-KELLY: Oh, God, here they come.
-CHRISTI: Here they come.
Come on, Cathy.
You have parting words?
We may be number two
and we may be trying harder,
but, Abby, there will come
a day when we beat you.
Because you have six kids
that you have to worry about.
I have 306.
ABBY: Cathy,
how do you still have that membership
when you solicit students?
Um, I'm not soliciting anybody, Abby!
She came to me
at her own free will.
She called me up
and said that you were a witch!
ABBY: Cathy makes my blood boil.
You went as Candy Apples
Dance Center today,
so that was a win
for Candy Apples.
With our number!
The dance world doesn't have rules,
so Cathy can poach
any student that she wants.
But Jill made a big, big mistake.
-Big.
-CATHY: Yes, I tweaked it!
I think there's a lot of studios in Ohio
that got in big trouble
for stealing choreography.
Oh, believe me, Abby,
I wouldn't want to steal
your choreography, really.
Let's go, guys.